---
title: 'Employment growth through labor flow networks'
description: 'After my first work using worker flow data, I knew that there was a lot more to be learnt from such granular information. Hence, I flipped the problem to look at employees moving across firms rather than at firms themselves. By using network analysis, we found a plethora of empirical regularities that had never been documented in labour studies. This work coined the term Labor Flow Networks and set the basis for many works from various people using network-based approaches to understand labour dynamics.'
pubDate: 'May 02 2013'
publicationLink: 'https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0060808'
---

It is conventional in labor economics to treat all workers who are seeking new jobs as belonging to a labor pool, and all firms that have job vacancies as an employer pool, and then match workers to jobs. Here we develop a new approach to study labor and firm dynamics. By combining the emerging science of networks with newly available employment micro-data, comprehensive at the level of whole countries, we are able to broadly characterize the process through which workers move between firms. Specifically, for each firm in an economy as a node in a graph, we draw edges between firms if a worker has migrated between them, possibly with a spell of unemployment in between. An economy's overall graph of firm-worker interactions is an object we call the labor flow network (LFN). This is the first study that characterizes a LFN for an entire economy. We explore the properties of this network, including its topology, its community structure, and its relationship to economic variables. It is shown that LFNs can be useful in identifying firms with high growth potential. We relate LFNs to other notions of high performance firms. Specifically, it is shown that fewer than 10% of firms account for nearly 90% of all employment growth. We conclude with a model in which empirically-salient LFNs emerge from the interaction of heterogeneous adaptive agents in a decentralized labor market.